feat(blog): Article for Astro 4.1.0 (#944)
withastro/astro.build: src/content/blog/astro-410.mdx

---
title: "Astro 4.1"

> description: "Astro 4.1, our first release of the new year, is here! This release includes"

Reviewer: Don't we actually want to include some highlights of what we're releasing with this minor?

publishDate: "January 4, 2024"
authors:
  - erika
  - ema
  - matthew
  - nate
  - bjorn
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/astro-410/post-header-4.1.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/astro-410/og-image-4.1.webp"
lang: "en"
---

After a small break for the holidays, we're back with a new release of Astro! Astro 4.1 includes a number of bug fixes and improvements. As we're all getting back into the swing of things, this release is a bit smaller than usual, but we're all excited to get back to work on Astro and have some exciting things planned for 2024!

Highlights include:

> - **[New a11y audits rules](#new-audits-rules)**
> - **[Ability to set `rootMargin` for `client:visible`](#extended-client-visible-directive)**
> - **[Custom cookie encoding and decoding](#custom-cookie-encoding-and-decoding)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[New a11y audit rules](#new-a11y-audit-rules)**
- **[New configuration option for `client:visible` ](#extended-clientvisible-directive)**
- **[Custom cookie encoding and decoding](#custom-cookie-encoding-and-decoding)**
```
Some of the links weren't working, plus slight editing suggestion!

To take advantage of the latest features, make sure you're running the latest version of Astro. You can upgrade to Astro 4.1 by running the `@astrojs/upgrade` command:

```sh
npx @astrojs/upgrade
```

or by running the upgrade command for your package manager:

```sh
npm install astro@latest
pnpm upgrade astro --latest
yarn upgrade astro --latest
```

> ## New a11y audits rules

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## New a11y audit rules
```

Author: And I would agree 🫡

> We've added two new audit rules for the dev toolbar:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've added two new audit rules for the dev toolbar. You will now be warned about:
```
Contextualizes a bit more, from the user experience maybe?

> - Unsupported ARIA attribute

Reviewer: since we're using the multiple form on the line below, I would suggest to use `attributes` instead of `attribute` here too.

```suggestion
- Unsupported ARIA attributes
```

- Missing attributes required for ARIA role

> These rules both help ensure that the elements on your page have correct and valid ARIA roles.

Reviewer: I find `These rules both` a bit hard to read, but maybe that's my non-native reading mind.

```suggestion
Both these rules help ensure that the elements on your page have correct and valid ARIA roles.
```

## Extended `client:visible` directive

> The `client:visible` client directive now accepts a `rootMargin` option, which allows you to specify a margin around the viewport to calculate visibility. This allows a component to be hydrated when it is close to the viewport instead of waiting for it to become visible.

Reviewer: Since we're using ``extended `client:visible` directive`` in the title. I would opt to use that here too.

```suggestion
The `client:visible` directive now accepts a `rootMargin` option, which allows you to specify a margin around the viewport to calculate visibility. This allows a component to be hydrated when it is close to the viewport instead of waiting for it to become visible.
```

> The `client:visible` client directive now accepts a `rootMargin` option, which allows you to specify a margin around the viewport for the purposes of calculating visibility. This allows a component to be hydrated when it is close to the viewport instead of waiting for it to become actually visible.

Reviewer 3: We can simplify this sentence a bit.
```suggestion
The `client:visible` client directive now accepts a `rootMargin` option, which allows you to specify a margin around the viewport to calculate visibility. This allows a component to be hydrated when it is close to the viewport instead of waiting for it to become visible.
```

```astro
<!-- Load component when it's within 200px away from entering the viewport -->
<Component client:visible={{rootMargin: "200px"}} />
```

## Custom cookie encoding and decoding

> Cookie encoding / decoding can now be customized through the new `encode` and `decode` functions that can be passed to `Astro.cookies.set` and `Astro.cookies.get` respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cookie encoding / decoding can now be customized through new `encode` and `decode` functions when setting and getting cookies.
```
Felt a little long, so maybe we just go with plain English description here?

Author: Works for me!

> Cookie encoding / decoding can now be customized through new `encode` and `decode` functions when setting and getting cookies.

Reviewer 3: For "this/that", I am pretty sure the correct usage is without the whitespace between the words.
```suggestion
Cookie encoding/decoding can now be customized through new `encode` and `decode` functions when setting and getting cookies.
```

> For example, you can bypass the default encoding via encodeURIComponent when adding a URL as part of a cookie:

Reviewer 3: I think it's good to inline code when we're referring to a method like this! 
```suggestion
For example, you can bypass the default encoding via `encodeURIComponent` when adding a URL as part of a cookie:
```
